---
title: 'OApackage: A Python package for generation and analysis of orthogonal arrays and conference designs'
tags:
  - Python
  - ortogonal arrays
  - conference matrices
  - design of experiments
authors:
  - name: Pieter Thijs Eendebak
    orcid: 0000-0003-0872-7098
    affiliation: "1, 2"
  - name: Alan Vazquez
    orcid: 0000-0000-0000-0000
    affiliation: 3
affiliations:
 - name: University of Antwerp
   index: 1
 - name: TNO
   index: 2
 - name: University of Leuven
   index: 3
date: 1 July 2018
bibliography: paper.bib
----

# Summary

Orthogonal arrays, optimal designs and conference designs are important tools in the design of
experiments [@Hedayat1999]. The Orthogonal Array
package contains functionality to generate and analyse these various designs. bla bla bla


The main functionality of the package consists of:

* Generation of orthogonal arrays, optimal designs and conference designs
* Reduction to normal form and isomophism testing of designs 
* Calculation of statistical properties of designs

The application of generated designs to analyse experiments is left to exising packages such as
[R](https://www.r-project.org/) and xxx xxx.

For generation of orthogonal arrays and conference designs we use an exhaustive generation of designs with ismorphism pruning
:cite:`Eendebak2009`, :cite:`IsomorphismPaper`.  bla bla
A generic interface to Nauty [@nauty] is provied to perform ismophism testing and reduction to normal form for designs with a specified isomorphism group.
A large collection of arrays can be found on the Orthogonal Array
packagewebsite :cite:`EendebakOA` or on the website of Neil
Sloane :cite:`Sloanewebsite`. The optimal designs are generated using a flexible optimality criterium and
a coordinate-exchange optimization algorithm :cite:`Eendebak2015`.

Once design have been generated, various statistical properties of the designs can be calculated. These include
generalized wordlength patterns, J-characteristics and the ranks of various matrices.

The package consists of a C++ library with an easy Python interface generated by SWIG.
Examples for both generation and analysis of designs are available in the documentation.


# Acknowledgements

We acknowledge usefull discussions with Eric Schoen during the development of this project.

# References